You were a product leader at Dropbox,
then Instacart. Now you're the PM of the
most consequential product in history.
>> I didn't know what I would do here. It
was a research lab. The first task was
like fix the blinds or something like
that.
>> When someone offers you a rocket ship,
don't ask which seat. We set out to
build a super assistant. It was supposed
to be a hackathon codebase.
>> What was it called before?
>> It was going to be chat with GBD3.5
because we really didn't think it was
going to be a successful product.
>> And then Sam Alman's just like, "Hey,
let me tweet about it."
>> This is a pattern with AI. You won't
know what to polish until after you
ship. My dream is there. We ship daily.
By the time people hear this, they're
going to have their hands on GPT5.
>> About 10% of the world population uses
every week. With scale comes
responsibility. It just feels a little
more alive, a bit more human. This model
has taste.
>> Kevin Wheel, your CPO, said to ask you
about this principle of is it maximally
accelerated?
>> I just really want to jump to the punch
line. Why can't we do this now? I always
felt like part of my role here to just
set the pace and the resting heartbeat.
>> Everyone's always wondering, is chat the
future of all of this stuff?
>> Chat was the simplest way to ship at the
time. I'm baffled by how much it took
off. I'm even more baffled by how many
people have copied.
>> Chat GPT is now driving more traffic to
my newsletter than Twitter.
>> That is the type of capability that has
been incredibly retentive. I've been
really excited about what we've been
doing in search.
>> Can you give us a peek into where this
goes long term?
>> Chatbt feels a little bit like MS DOS.
We haven't built Windows yet and it will
be obvious once we do.
>> Today my guest is Nick Turley. Nick is
head of chatbt at OpenAI. He joined the
company 3 years ago when it was still
primarily a research lab. He helped come
up with the idea of chat GPT and took it
from zero to over 700 million weekly
active users, billions in revenue, and
arguably the most successful and
impactful consumer software product in
human history. Nick is incredible. He's
been very much under the radar. This is
the first major podcast interview that
he has ever done and you are in for a
treat. We talk about all the things
including the just launched GPT5. A huge
thank you to Kevin Wheel, Claire Vo,
George O'Brien, Joanne Jen, and Peter
Ding for suggesting topics for this
conversation. If you enjoy this podcast,
don't forget to subscribe and follow it
in your favorite podcasting app or
YouTube. And if you become an annual
subscriber of my newsletter, you get a
year free of a bunch of incredible
products including Lovable, Replet,
Bolt, Nadant, Linear, Superhum, Dcript,
Whisper Flow, Gamma, Perplexity, Warp,
Granola, Magic Patterns, Raycast, Chapar
D, and Mobin. Check it out at
lenny'snewsletter.com and click bundle.
With that, I bring you Nick Turley. This
episode is brought to you by Orcus, the
company behind Open-source Conductor,
the orchestration platform powering
modern enterprise apps and agentic
workflows. Legacy automation tools can't
keep pace. Siloed low code platforms,
outdated process management, and
disconnected API tooling fall short in
today's event-driven AI powered agentic
landscape. Orcus changes this. With
Orcus Conductor, you gain an agentic
orchestration layer that seamlessly
connects humans, AI agents, APIs,
microservices, and data pipelines in
real time at enterprise scale. Visual
and codeforce development, built-in
compliance, observability, and rock
solid reliability ensure workflows
evolve dynamically with your needs. It's
not just about automating tasks. It's
orchestrating autonomous agents and
complex workflows to deliver smarter
outcomes faster. Whether modernizing
legacy systems or scaling nextgen
AIdriven apps, Orcus accelerates your
journey from idea to production. Learn
more and start building at
orcus.io/lenny.
That's oke kes.io/lenny.
This episode is brought to you by Vanta
and I am very excited to have Christina
Casiopo, CEO and co-founder of Vanta,
joining me for this very short
conversation.
>> Great to be here. Big fan of the podcast
and the newsletter. Vanta is a longtime
sponsor of the show, but for some of our
newer listeners, what does Vanta do and
who is it for?
>> Sure. So, we started Vanta in 2018
focused on founders, helping them start
to build out their security programs and
get credit for all of that hard security
work with compliance certifications like
SOCK 2 or ISO 2701. Today, we currently
help over 9,000 companies, including
some startup household names like
Atlassian, Ramp, and Lang Chain, start
and scale their security programs, and
ultimately build trust by automating
compliance, centralizing GRC, and
accelerating security reviews.
>> That is awesome. I know from experience
that these things take a lot of time and
a lot of resources, and nobody wants to
spend time doing this.
>> That is very much our experience, but
before the company and to some extent
during it. But the idea is with
automation, with AI, with software, we
are helping customers build trust with
prospects and customers in an efficient
way. And you know our joke, we started
this compliance company so you don't
have to.
>> We appreciate you for doing that. And
you have a special discount for
listeners. They can get $1,000 off Vanta
at vanta.com/lenny.
That's venta.com/lenny
for $1,000 off. Thanks for that,
Christina.
>> Thank you.
Nick, thank you so much for joining me
and welcome to the podcast.
>> Thanks for having me, Lenny.
>> I already had a billion questions I
wanted to ask you and then you guys
decided to launch DPT5 the week that
we're recording this. So, now I have at
least two billion questions for you. I
hope you have I hope you have a lot of
time. First of all, just congrats on the
launch. It's coming tomorrow, the day
after we're recording this. Just uh
congrats. How you feeling? I imagine
this is an ungodly amount of work and
stress. How you doing? It's a busy week,
but you know, we we've been working on
this for a while. So, it also feels
really good to get it out.
>> So, by the time people hear this,
they're going to have their hands on
GPT5 and the newest Chat GPT. What's the
simplest way to just understand what
this is, what it unlocks, what people
can do with it. Give us kind of the the
pitch.
>> I'm so excited about GPD5. It uh I think
for most people is going to feel like a
real step change. If you're the average
hatg user and we have you know 700
million of them um this week we uh
you've probably been on GPD40 for you
know a while you probably don't even
think about the model that powers the
product and GPD5 is is it just feels
categorically different I'll talk about
a lot of the specifics but you know at
the end of the day the vibes are good at
least we feel that way we hope that
users feel the same u and increasingly
that is the thing that I think most
people notice right um they don't look
at the academic benchmarks They don't
look at evaluations. They try the model
and and see what it feels like. And just
on that dimension alone, I'm so excited.
I've been using it for a while. But it
is also, you know, the smartest um most
useful and um fastest Frontier model um
that we've ever launched. You know, on
pure smarts, one way to look at that is
academic benchmarks. on many of the
standard ones. Um whether or not it's
math or reasoning or you know just raw
intelligence, this model is
state-of-the-art. I'm especially excited
about its performance on coding. Um
whether or not that's bench, which is a
common benchmark, or actually front-end
coding is really really good, um as
well. And um that's an area where I I
feel like there's there's a true step
change improvement in in in GPT5. But
really, no matter how you sort of
measure the smarts, it's it's it's quite
remarkable and I think people are going
to feel the upgrade, especially if they
weren't using 03 already. And you know,
the the second thing um beyond smarts is
it's just really useful. Coding is one
access of utility whether or not you
have coding questions or you're vibe
coding an app. Um but it's also a really
good writer. I write for a living uh
internally, externally. I just wrote a
big blog post um that we published
Monday. you know, this thing is like
such an incredible editor. Um, and and
you know, compared to some of the the
the older models, it's just got it's got
taste, which I think is really exciting.
And, um, to me, that's like something
that is truly useful um, in in in my
day-to-day. And, um, there's other a
bunch of other areas like it's state of
the art on health, which is useful when
you need it. But again, the sort of the
thing you can't really express in use
cases or even yeah, in use cases or or
data is sort of the vibe of the model
and it just feels a little bit more
alive, a bit more human in a way that is
kind of hard to articulate until you try
it. So feel good about that. And yeah,
as mentioned, it's faster. Um, it uh it
thinks too just like 03 did, but you
don't have to manually, you know, tell
it to do that. It'll just dynamically
decide to think when it needs to. Um,
and when it doesn't need to think, it
just responds instantly. And that ends
up feeling quite a bit faster than using
03 did. And then, you know, maybe the
thing that's most exciting is that we're
making it available for free. And that's
like one of those things that I feel
like we can uniquely do at OpenAI
because, you know, many companies I
think if they have a subscription model
like us, they would gate it behind their
paid plan. And for us, you know, if we
can scale it, we will. And that just
feels awesome. We did that with 40 as
well. So, everyone's going to be able to
try GBD5 uh tomorrow hopefully.
>> How long does something like this take?
Like I don't know if there's a simple
answer to this but just how long have
you guys been working on GPT5?
>> We've been working on it for a while. Um
you know you can kind of view GPD5 as a
culmination of a bunch of different
efforts. You know we had the reasoning
tech. We had a more classic post
screening uh methodologies
um and therefore it's really hard to put
a beginning on it but but you know um it
really is kind of the end point of a
bunch of different techniques that we
for a while. Can you give us a peek into
the vision for where Jat GPT is going?
GPT in general is going like if you look
at on the surface it's just it's been
kind of the same idea with a much
smarter brain for a long time. I'm
curious where this goes long term.
>> So to to maybe back up a bit um now you
think of chat as this kind of ubiquitous
product. Um again about 10% of the world
population uses every week. Um you know
I think we have like five million
business customers now. um it's like you
know an established category in its own
right but really when we started we set
out to build a super assistant that's
what we that's how we talked about it at
the time in fact the code base that we
use is called SA server um it was it was
supposed to be a hackathon codebase um
but you know things things always turned
out a little bit differently and uh uh
so so yeah in some ways that is still
the vision the reason I don't talk about
it more than I you know do is because I
think a system is a bit limiting in
terms of the mental model we're trying
to create you think of this like very
personified human thing, maybe
utilitarian maybe uh you know and and
frankly you know having an assistant is
not particularly relatable to most
people unless they're like in Silicon
Valley and they're a manager or
something like that. So it's imperfect
but like really what you know we
envision is is this entity that can help
you with any task whether or not that's
at home or at work or at school um
really any context and uh it's an entity
that you know knows what you're trying
to achieve. So you know unlike chat
today you uh uh don't have to describe
your problem in in in minute to detail
because it already stands your
overarching goals and has context on
your life etc. Um so you know that's one
thing that we're really excited about.
Um the the sort of inverse of giving it
more inputs on your life is giving it
more action space. So we're really
excited to allow it to do um over time
what a smart empathetic human with a
computer could do for you. Um, and I
think, you know, the limit of the the
types of problems that you can solve for
people once you give it access to tools
like that, um, is is very very different
than what you might be able to do in a
chatbot today. So, you know, that's more
outputs. And I often think, okay, you
know, I'm a general intelligence if I
what would happen if I, you know, became
Lenny's intern or something. Um, and,
you know, I wouldn't be particularly
effective despite, you know, having both
of those attributes that I just
mentioned. Um, and it's because, you
know, um, I think this idea of building
a relationship with this technology is
also incredibly important. So, that's
maybe the third piece that I'm excited
about is building a product that can
truly get to know you over time. And you
saw us launch some of those things, you
know, with uh, improved memory earlier
this year. And that's just the beginning
of what we're hoping to do. So, that it
really feels like your AI. So, I don't
know if Super Assistant is still the
right um, exact analogy, but I think
people just think of it as their AI. Um,
and I think we can put one in everyone's
pocket and uh um help them solve real
problems. Whether or not that's becoming
healthy, whether or not that's, you
know, um starting a business, whether or
not that's, you know, just having a
second opinion on anything. Um there's
so many different problems that you can
help with people in their in their daily
life. And that's what motivates me.
>> So, an interesting uh kind of between
the lines that I'm reading here is the
vision is for it to be an assistant for
people, not to replace people. It feels
like a really important uh piece of the
puzzle. maybe just talk about that
>> AI is really scary to people. Um, and I
understand, you know, there's decades of
movies on AI that have a certain mental
model kind of baked in. And even if you
just look at the technology today once
everyone I think has this moment where
the AI does something that was really
deeply personal to them and you're like
kind of thought, hey, the AI can never
do that. You know, for me it was like
like weird music theory things where I
was like, wow, this thing actually like
understands music better than I do and
that's like something I'm passionate
about. And uh, you know, so so it it's
naturally scary. And I think the thing
that's been really important to us um
for a long time is to build something
that feels like it it's helpful to you,
but you're in the driver's seat. And
that's even more important as the stuff
becomes agendic, right? Um like the
feeling of being in control. And that
can be small things like, you know, we
built this way of sort of watching what
the AI is doing when it's in agent mode.
Um, and it's not that like you actually
are going to watch it the whole time,
but it gives you a mental model and
makes you feel in control in the same
way that when you're in a Whimo, you you
get that screen for those of you who
have tried Whimo. You know, you can see
the other cars. It's not like you're
going to actually watch, but it gives
you the sense that you know how this
thing works and what's happening. Or we,
you know, we always check with you to
confirm things. It's a little bit
annoying, but it puts you in the
driver's seat, which is which is um
important. And for that reason, you
know, we always view technology and the
technology that we build as something
that amplifies what you're capable of
rather than replacing it. And uh that
becomes important as the deck gets more
powerful.
>> Okay. So you mentioned the beginnings of
chat GPT. I was reading in a different
interview. So you joined OpenAI. ChatGpt
was kind of just this internal
experimental project that was basically
a way to test GPT 3.5. And then Sam
Alman's just like, "Hey, let me tweet
about it. Maybe see if people find this
interesting." yada yada yada. It's the
most uh successful consumer product in
history, I think, both in growth rate
and users and revenue and just absurd.
Can you give us a glimpse into that
early period before it became something
everyone's obsessed with?
>> Yeah. Um so we had decided that we
wanted to do something consumerf facing
I think you know right around the time
that GB4 finished training and it was
actually u mainly for a couple reasons.
You know we already had a product out
there which was our developer product.
That's actually what I came in um to
help with initially and uh you know that
has been amazing for the mission. In
fact, it's grown up and now it's the
open platform with I don't know 4
million developers I think. But you know
at the time it was you know early stage
and and we were running running into
some constraints with it because um we
there was two problems. One you couldn't
iterate very quickly because every time
you would change the model you would
break everyone's app. So it was really
hard to try things and then the other
thing um was that it was really hard to
learn because the feedback we would get
was like the feedback from the end user
to the developer to us. So it was very
disintermediated and we were excited to
make fast progress toward towards AGI
and it just felt like we needed a more
direct relationship with with consumers.
So we were trying to figure out where to
start and you know in classic openi
fashion especially back then um we put
together a hackathon of enthusiasts of
just hacking on GPD4 to kind of see what
awesome stuff we could create and maybe
ship to users and um everyone's idea had
was was some flavor of a super assistant
like they were more specific ideas like
we had a meeting bot that would call
into uh meetings and you know the vision
was you know maybe we would like help it
will help you run the meeting over time.
And we had a coding tool which you know
uh full circle now probably ahead of its
time. Um and you know the challenge was
that with we tested those things but
every time we tested these more bespoke
ideas people wanted to use it for all
this other stuff because it's just a
very very generically powerful
technology. So after a couple months of
prototyping, we took that same kind of
crew of volunteers and it was truly a
volunteer group, right? We had like
someone from the supercomputing team who
had built an iOS team iOS app before. We
had um someone, you know, on the
research team who had written some
backend code in their life. They they
were all part of this initial chat GBT
team and we decided to ship something
open-ended because we just wanted a real
use case distribution. Um and this is a
pattern with AI I think where you know
you really have to ship to understand
what is even possible and what people
want um rather than being able to reason
about that a priori. So chatbt came
together at the end because we just
wanted the learnings as soon as we could
and um we shipped it right before the
holiday thinking we would sort of come
back and get the data and then wind it
down. And obviously that part turned out
super differently because um um people
really liked the product as is. Um, so I
remember sort of going through the
motions of like, oh man, dashboard's
broken. Oh wait, people are liking it.
I'm sure it's just, you know, going
viral and and stuff is going to die down
to like, oh wow, people are retaining,
but I don't understand why. Um, and then
eventually we kind of like, you know,
fell into product development mode, but
it was a little bit by accident.
>> Wow. I did not know that uh Chat GPT
emerged out of a hackathon project.
Definitely the most successful hackathon
project. I like to tell this story when
we when we talk about uh when we when we
do our our hackathons because I really
do want people to feel like they can
ship their idea and it's certainly been
true in the past and we'll continue to
make it true.
>> Maybe you don't want to share these
things but I wonder who that team was.
>> The team's um largely still around. Some
of the researchers working on GPT5
actually you know they were always part
of the the chat GPT team. Um engineers
are still around um designer um
designers are still around. I'm still
here I guess. So, you got the team still
running things, but obviously we've
grown up tremendously and we've had to
because you know with scale comes
responsibility and um you know um we're
going to hit a billion users soon and
you you kind of have to begin acting in
a way that is appropriate um um to that
scale.
>> Okay. So, let me spend a little time
there. So I don't know if this is 100%
true, but I believe it is that Chat GPT
is the fastest growing, most successful
consumer product in history. Also the
most impactful on people's lives. It
feels like it's just part of the ether
of society now. It's just my wife talks
to it. Like it every question I have, I
go to it. Voice mode. My wife's just
like, "Let me check with check with
JPT." It's just such a part of our life
now. And and I think it's still early.
So many people don't even know what the
hell is going on. just as someone
leading this, how does just do you ever
just take a moment to reflect and think
about just like holy I have to
it's quite humbling to get to run a
product like that and um I have to binge
myself very frequently and I also have
to sometimes sit back and let you know
just think which is really hard when
things are moving so quickly you know I
love setting a fast pace um at the
company but in order to do that with
confidence I you know I need at least
one day every week that I'm like
entirely unplugged and I'm just thinking
about you know what what to do and
process the week etc. Um, and uh,
the other thing is I've never ever
worked on a product that
is so empirical in its nature where if
you don't stop and watch and listen to
what people are doing, you're going to
miss so much like both on the utility
and on the risks actually because
normally, you know, by the time you ship
a product, you you you uh know what it's
going to do. You don't know if people
are going to like it. that's always
empirical, but you know what it can do.
And with AI, because I think so much of
it is emergent, you actually really need
to stop and listen after you launch
something and then you know iterate on
on on the things people are trying to do
and and on on the things that aren't
aren't quite working yet. So for that
reason alone, I think it's very
important to, you know, take a break and
and just watch what's going on.
>> Okay. So you take a day off every week.
Not off. Okay. That's not the right way
to put it. You take a day of of thinking
time, deep work.
>> I I need it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. and and
um and I need to hard unplug you know on
a Saturday or something like that
obviously
>> on a Saturday like the next
>> but uh you know it's just not possible
otherwise it's this has been a giant
marathon for three years now um
>> like a sprint marathon
>> sprint marathon that's right or interval
training or something I I don't know how
to exactly describe the open air launch
cadence but you know uh you got to you
got to you know set yourself up in a way
that is sustainable even even if even if
this wasn't AI and it didn't have the
interesting attributes that I just
mentioned And I think you you would need
to do that, but um especially with AI,
it's important to go watch.
>> So along those lines, I talked to a
bunch of people that work with you that
work at OpenAI. Uh Joanne specifically
said that uh urgency and pace are a big
part of how you operate that that's just
uh something you find really important
to create urgency within the team
constantly even when you are the fastest
growing product in history, growing like
crazy. Talk about just your philosophy
on the importance of pace and urgency on
teams.
>> Well, it's nice of her to say that. Um
you know I I spent a lot of two things
you know with chatbt I you know the when
we decided to do it you know we had been
prototyping for so long and I was just
like you know in 10 days we're going to
ship this thing and you know we did. So
that was like maybe a moment in time
thing where I just really wanted to make
sure that we go learn something. Um but
for you know ever since then I I spent
so much time thinking about why chat
became successful in the first place and
I think there was some element of just
doing things where you know there was
many other companies that had um
technology in the LM space that just
never got shipped and I just felt like
you know of all the things we could
optimize for learning as fast as
possible is incredibly important. And so
I just started rallying people around
that and that took different forms like
for a while when we were of that size. I
just ran this like you know daily
release sync and it had everyone who was
required to make a decision in it and we
would just talk about what to do and to
pivot from yesterday etc. Obviously at
some point that doesn't scale but I
always felt like part of my role here
obviously was like to think about you
know the direction of the product but
also to just set the pace and the
resting heartbeat um for our teams. And
again, this is important anywhere, but
it's especially important when you know
the only way to find out what people
like and um and and what's valuable is
to bring it into the external world. Um
so for that reason, I think it's become
a superpower of OpenAI and I'm glad that
Joanne thinks I had some part in that,
but it it really has taken a village.
>> I love this phrase, the resting heart
rate of your team. That's such a perfect
metaphor of just the pace uh being
equivalent to your resting heart rate.
>> I actually learned that at Instacart
when I when I showed up there because we
were in the pandemic and it was um kind
of all hands on deck for a while. There
was this like you I think there was a
companywide standup um because we
disbanded all teams. is trying to keep
the site up and for me you know I I had
been used to kind of taking my sweet
time and just thinking really hard about
things and that's important but I really
learned to hustle over there and um I
think that's come in handy um at open
>> okay so along these same lines I asked
Kevin Wheel your CPO what to ask you and
he said to ask you about uh this
principle of is it maximally accelerated
talk about that
>> it's funny we have a slack emoji
apparently for this now there because I
used to say that now now I try to like
paraphrase Um sometimes I just really
want to jump to the
you to the punch line of like okay why
can't we do this now or why can't we do
it tomorrow and I think that you know
it's a good way to cut through a huge
number of blockers uh with the team and
just instill especially if you come from
a larger company you know at some point
we started hiring people from from you
know larger tech companies I think
they're used to you know let's check
check in on this in a week or let's you
know um circle back next quarter to see
if it can go on the on on the plan. And
I just kind of as a thought exercise, I
was like people asking like, okay, if
like this was the most important thing
and you wanted to truly maximally
accelerate it, what would you do? That
doesn't mean that you go do that, but
it's really a good forcing function for
understanding what's critical path
versus what you know can happen later.
And I've just always felt like, you
know, execution is incredibly important.
Like these ideas are they're everywhere.
Everyone's talking about, you know, hey,
personal AI, you know, you might have
seen news on that, you know, and and and
you know, I I really think that
execution is is is one of the most
important things in the space and this
is a tool. So, um it's funny that that
became a meme. Um it's like a little
pink slack emoji that people just put on
um whatever they're trying to to force
the question.
>> I was going to ask what the emoji was.
So, it's a little pink. Is there
something in there like Max?
>> It's a comic sense emoji that says, "Is
this Maximalist?"
And so the kind of the culture there is
when someone is working on something the
question the push is is this maximally
accelerated is there a way we can do
this faster? Is there anything we can
unblock?
>> Yeah. And you know we use that sparingly
right because it has needs to be
appropriate to the context. Um there
there's some things where you don't want
to accelerate um as as quickly as
possible um because you you kind of want
process and we're very very deliberate
on that where you process is a tool and
one of the areas where we have an
immense amount of process is safety uh
because you know a the stakes are
already really high um especially with
these models you know GPT5 which is the
frontier in so many different ways but b
you kind of if you believe in the
exponential which I do and you know most
people who work on this stuff do you
have to play practice this for a time
where you know you really really need
the process for sure for sure sure and
that's why I think it's been really
important to separate out you know the
product development velocity which has
to be super high from okay for things
like frontier models there actually
needs to be a rigorous process where you
red team you work on the system card you
get external input um and then you put
things out with with confidence that
it's gone through you know the right
safeguards so again it's a nuanced
concept but I found it very very useful
when we need it um And for everything
product development, you're a dead on
arrival. So it's it's important to get
stuff out.
>> We got to open source as memes so that
other teams can build on this approach.
>> Absolutely.
>> So interestingly with Chat GPT, and it's
not a surprise, but not only is it the
fastest growing, most successful
consumer product ever, retention is also
incredibly high. People have shared
these stats that one month retention is
something like 90%, six-month retention
is something like 80%. First of all, are
these numbers accurate? Quick, can you
share that?
>> I'm obviously limited on what exactly I
can share. Um, but it is true that our
retention numbers are really exciting
and that is actually the thing we we
look at. You know, we we don't care at
all how much time you spend in the
product. Um, you know, in fact, our
incentive is just to solve your problem
and you know, if you really like the
product, you'll subscribe. But, you
know, there's no incentive to keep you
in the product um for long. But we are
obviously really really happy if you
know over the long run you know 3 month
period etc you're still using this thing
and for me this was always the elephant
in the room early on it's like hey this
may be really cool product but you know
is this really the type of thing that
you come back to and it's been
incredible to not just see strong
retention numbers but to see you know in
improvement in retention over time um
even as our cohorts become you know um
less of an early adopter and more you
know the the average person. So um
>> yeah so like that note is something that
I don't think people truly understand
how rare this is when a product the
cohort of users comes tries it out and
then retention over time goes down and
then it comes back up people come back
to it a few months later and use it more
and that's it's called a smiling curve
or smile curve and that's extremely
rare.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. know this there's some
smiling going on um not just on the team
and um the you know I feel I have to
acknowledge that some of it is is not
the product I think people are actually
just getting used to this technology in
like a really interesting way where I
find and this is why the product needs
to evolve too that this idea of
delegating to an AI it's not natural to
most people it's not like you're going
through life and figuring out what can I
delegate like certain sphere of Silicon
Valley does that you know because
they're in like a self-optimization mode
and they're trying to delegate
everything they can but I think for most
people in world. It's actually quite
unnatural and you really have to learn
okay what what are my goals actually and
what could another intelligence help me
with and I think that just takes time
and people do figure it out once they've
had enough time with the product but
then of course there's been tons of
things that we've done in the product
too whether or not it's making the core
models better whether or not it's you
know new capabilities like search and
personalization
um and and all that uh kind of stuff or
you know um just standard growth work
too which we're starting to do you know
that stuff matters Of course.
>> So you might have you might be answering
this question already, but let me just
ask it directly. People may look at this
and be like, okay, they're building this
kind of layer on top of this godlike
intelligence. Uh, of course, it will
grow incredibly fast and retention will
be incredible. What the heck does what
are you guys actually doing that sits on
top of the model that makes it grow so
fast and retain so much? Is there
something that has worked incredibly
well that has moved metrics
significantly that you can share? I
mean, one thing we've learned, um, I'll
answer that question in a minute, but
you know, the the one thing we've
learned with Chad CBT is that there
really is no distinction between the
model and the product. Like, the model
is the product. Um, and therefore, you
need to iterate on it like a product.
And by that I mean is like, you know, if
there's you obviously you typically
start by shipping something very
open-ended. Um, at least if you're open
AI, that's kind of a playbook. Um, but
then you really have to look at what are
people trying to do. Okay, they're
trying to write, they're trying to code,
they're trying to get advice, they're
trying to get recommendations, and you
need to systematically improve on those
use cases. And that is pretty similar to
product development work. Obviously, the
methodology is a bit different, but the
discovery is is is the same. You got to
talk to people, you got to do data
science, and you got to try stuff and
and get feedback. Um, so that's like one
chunk of work that we've been very
consciously doing. Um, is improving the
model on the use cases people care
about. And there's also such thing as
vibes as because I'm sure you you know
and that's one of the things that I'm
excited about in GPT5 is that the vibes
are really good. So that too is you know
we have a model behavior team and they
really focus on you know what is the
personality of this model and how you
know how does it speak and talk. So
there's that kind of work. I would say
that's maybe you know a third of the you
know retention uh improvements that we
see or so just roughly. And then I think
another third is is is what I would call
sort of product research capabilities.
Um they're research driven for sure.
They have a research component but
they're really new product features or
capabilities. And like search is one
example of that where you know if you
remember in the olden days aka like you
know maybe 20 months ago or something
you would talk to chatd and be like you
know as of my knowledge cut off or I
can't answer that because that happened
too recently or something like that. And
you know that is a type of capability
that has been incredibly retentive. Um
and um for for good reason. It just
allows you to do more with the product.
Personalization like this idea of
advanced memory where things can really
get to know you over time is another
example of a capability like that. You
know I think that's another good chunk.
And then you know the third stuff is the
stuff you would do in any product and
those things exist too. you know, um
like not having to log in was a huge hit
um because it removed a ton of the
friction and um um I think we we had
this intuition from the beginning, but
we never got to it because we didn't
have enough GPU or, you know, other
other constraint to really really really
go do that. So, you know, there's the
like kind of traditional product work
too. So, I often think about it sort of
as roughly a third, a third, a third,
but really, you know, we're still
learning and um we're planning to evolve
the product a ton, which is why I'm sure
there's going to be new levers.
>> You mentioned something that I want to
come back to real quick. You said that
the it was something like 10 days from
hackathon to Sam tweeting about chatbt
being live.
>> You know the hackathon happened much
earlier and we were prototyping for a
long time but at some point we basically
ran out of patience on you know on
trying to you know build something more
bespoke and again that was mostly
because people always wanted to do all
this other stuff uh whenever we tested
it. So it was 10 days from from when we
decided we were going to ship to when we
shipped. Um and um you know the the
research we'd been testing for a long
time it was kind of an evolution of what
we'd called instruction following uh
which was the idea that you know instead
of just completing the sentence these
models could actually follow you
instructions. So if you said summarize
this it would actually do so. And the
research had evolved from that into a
chat format where we could do it
multi-turn. So that research took way
longer than 10 days and I kind of baking
in the background but the you know the
productization of this thing um was very
very fast um and you know lots of things
didn't make it in like I remember we
didn't have history which of course was
like the you know first user feedback we
got the model had a bunch of you know
shortcomings and it was so cool to be
able to iterate on the model like the
thing I just talked about like treating
the model as a product was not a thing
before chat shipp because we would ship
it more like hardware where you know we
there'd be a a release like GPD3 three
and then we would start working on GP4
and these were giant big spend R&D
projects that would take a really long
time and you kind of the spec was
whatever the spec was and then you'd
have to wait another year and chat GBT
really broke that down because we were
able to make make uh iterative
improvements to it just like software
and really my dream is that it would be
amazing if we could just ship daily or
even hourly like in software land
because you could just fix stuff etc but
there's of course all kinds of
challenges in how you do that while you
know keeping the personality intact
while like not regressing other
capabilities. So, it's an open open
field to get there.
>> This such a good example of is it
maximally accelerated? Okay, we're going
to ship chat GT. Okay, 10 days.
>> Holy moly. We've been talking about chat
GBT. Clearly, it's a kind of a chat
interface. Everyone's always wondering
is chat the future of all of this stuff.
Interestingly, Kevin Wheel made this
really profound point that has always
stuck with me when he was on the podcast
that chat is actually a genius interface
for building on a super intelligence
because it's how we interact with humans
of all variety of intelligence. It
scales from someone at the lower end to
the to a super super smart person. And
so it's really valuable as a way to kind
of scale this spectrum. Uh maybe just
talk about that and just is chat the
long-term interface for chat GPT. I
guess it's called chat GPT.
>> I feel like we should either drop the
chat or drop the G GPT at some point
because it is a mouthful. Uh we're stuck
with the name. Um but you know, no
matter what we do with that, you know,
it it uh um the product will evolve. I I
think that I agree that there's
something profound about um natural
language. like it just really is the
most natural form of communicating um to
humans and therefore it feels important
that you should be communicating with
your software in natural language. I
think that's different from chat though.
I think chat was the simplest way to put
something to you know to ship at the
time. I'm baffled by how much it took
off um as as a concept. I'm even more
baffled by how many people have copied
the paradigm rather than, you know,
trying out a different way of
interacting with AI. I'm still hoping
that will happen. So, I think natural
language is here to stay, but this idea
that it has to be a turnbyturn chat
interaction, I think, um, is really
limiting. Um, and this is one of the
reasons I don't love the super assistant
analogy, even though we, you know, used
to always use it, is because if you
think that way, then you kind of feel
like you're talking to a person. But,
you know, and TPD5 is amazing at at um
making great front-end applications. So,
I I don't see a reason why you wouldn't
have, you know, AIS that, you know, can
can render their own UI in some way. And
you obviously want to make that
predictable and feel good. But it feels
limiting to me to think of the end all
be all interface as a chatbot. It
actually kind of feels dystopian almost
where like I don't want to use all my
software through the proxy of some
interface. Like I love being in Figma. I
love being in, you know, uh, Google
Docs. Those are all great products to me
and they're not chatbots. So, um, yes on
natural language, but no on chat is is
where I would describe my my point of
view. Um, and I'm just hoping in general
that we see more sort of consumer
innovation on how people interact with
AI. There's so many possibilities
and you just got to try stuff. That's
why chat stuck is like, you know, we
just did it and people liked it. So, I'm
hoping that um we we see more there and
we'll we'll try to do our part. So, you
mentioned that you kind of like got
stuck with this name chat GPT. Uh, maybe
this is part of the answer, but I'm
curious just are there any accidental
decisions you guys made early on that
have stuck and have essentially become
history changing?
>> There there there's so many and it's
it's funny because you have like no time
to think about them and then they end up
being super consequential. You know, the
day was one, you know, we went from chat
with GBD 3.5 to chat GB2 the night
before. Slightly better but still really
bad.
>> What was it called before? It was going
to be chat with GBD3.5.
>> We because we really didn't think it was
going to be a successful product. Like
we were trying to actually be as nerdy
as we could about it because that's
really what it was. It was like, you
know, a research demo, not not a
product. So, we didn't think that was
bad. But, um, you know, I I think that
in the original release, you know,
making it free was a big deal. I I don't
think we appreciate that because the uh
GPD 3.5 model was in our API for, you
know, at least 6 months prior to that. I
think anyone could have built something
like this. Might not have been quite as
good on the modeling side, but I think
it would have taken off. So making it
free and putting a nice UI on it very
consequential in the way that you take
for granted now. And this is why I think
that a distribution and b the you know
the interface are continued continuously
important even in in 2025. the paid
business which now is it's it's it's a
it's a giant business um both in you
know the consumer space and in the
enterprise space the birth of that was
just to turn away demand originally like
it was not like you know we brainstormed
oh what is the best monetization model
for AI it was really what is what
monetization model has or what what
mechanism would allow us to turn away
people who are like you know less
serious than the people who are really
trying to use it and subscriptions just
happened to have that property and it
you know grew into a large business.
Yeah, I think
shipping really kind of funky
capabilities before they were polished
is another thing where you know that
feels like a tactical decision but it
became a playbook because we would learn
so much like remember when we shipped
code interpreter we learned so much
after u we shipped it you know now it's
known as I think data analysis and chat
GBT or something like that just because
we actually got real world use cases
back that we could then optimize so I
think there's been like a lot of
decisions over over time that um proved
pretty consequential, but you know, we
made them very very quickly as as as we
have to. So, um
>> the the $20 a month feels like an
important part of this. Feels like
everybody's just doing that now. And
>> oh, that one actually I remember I had
this like kind of panic attack because
we really needed to launch subscriptions
because at the time we were we were
taking the product down every time. Um
it was like I don't know if you remember
we had this like fail whale. There's
like a little E3 generated poem
>> on it. They were like, "We had to get
this out." And I I remember calling up
um someone I greatly respect who's like,
you know, incredible at pricing. Um and
and you was like, "What should I do?"
And like we talked a bunch and I just
ran out of time to to incorporate most
of that feedback. So what I did do is
ship a Google form to Discord with like
I think the four questions you're
supposed to ask on how to price
something.
Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. It literally had
those four questions and I remember
distinctly a you know I got a price
back. Um, and that's kind of how we got
to $20. But B, uh, the next morning
there was like a press article on like
you won't believe the like four genius
questions the Chachi team asked to price
their it was like if only you knew. So
there's like something about building in
this extreme public where people
interpret so much more intentionality
into what you're doing than you know
might have actually existed at the time.
But we got with the 20. We're debating
you know something slightly higher at
the time. I often wonder what would have
happened because so many other companies
ended up copying the $20 price point. So
I'm like, did we like erase a bunch of
market cap by pricing it this way? But
ultimately, I don't care because like
the more accessible we can make this
stuff, the better. And I think this is
the price point that in Western
countries has been um reasonable to a
lot of people in terms of the value that
they get back. And um more importantly,
we're able to push things down to the
free tier um semi-regularly. And we
always do that when we can um including
with GP25. So the survey just to give it
the official name the van western drop
survey uh is how you guys ended up
pricing chap.
>> It was the top Google result. This was
before chat had real time information
otherwise it could have maybe priced
itself but uh it was discord plus google
forum plus a blog post on that
methodology that um got us there. So
>> that is incredible. What a fun story.
This is the survey that Rahulvore at
superhuman popularized in his first
round article.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's right. That's
right. Uh yeah, definitely don't bring
me on here as a pricing expert. I think
you you you have got better people for
that.
>> Whether it was right or wrong, it is now
the fastest growing insane revenue
generating business in the world. So, uh
I wouldn't feel too bad.
>> No, it worked out. Yeah,
>> it worked out. Uh and by the way, I'm on
the 200 a month tier, so there's clearly
room.
>> Thank you. Thank you. You know that the
story of that one is is interesting too
because you know originally the purpose
of the plus plan was to be able to ship
first uptime and then be able to ship
capabilities that we couldn't scale to
everyone and at some point we got so
many people in the plus tier that it
just lost that property. Um so the re
the main reason we came up with the $200
tier is just we had so much incredible
research that's actually really really
powerful. um like you know 03 Pro or to
you know tomorrow GPD5 Pro. Um and just
having a vehicle of shipping that to
people who really really care is
exciting even though it kind of violates
the standard way a SAS page should look.
Um it's like a little jarring to see the
see the 10x jump. So um thank you for
being a subscriber on that and thank you
everyone else who's watching you
subscribe to any tier. Um it's it's
great.
>> I'm just going to throw a fishing line
into this pond of are there any other
stories like this? You shared this
incredible story of chat with GPT 3.5
being the original name, how you came up
with pricing. Is there anything else?
>> Enterprise interesting one too because
we've been seen so much um
incredible adoption in the enterprise
and it's sort of objectively crazy to
try to take on building a developer
business and a consumer business and a
develop and and an enterprise business
and an and all at once. But you know the
story there is in in like month one or
or two I it was like very clear that
most of the usage was like kind of worky
usage actually much more than today
where you've got so many like kind of
consumers uh on the product and you know
it's kind of sort of transcended into
pop culture but at the time it was like
you know writing coding analysis that
kind of stuff and uh we were pretty
quickly in you know organically in like
90% of Fortune 500 companies in a way
that I had seen maybe at Dropbox back
when I you know that
two jobs ago where we kind of had a
similar story and since then there's
been more PLG companies but the real
reason we did enterprise I remember we
were debating should we do enterprise or
should we launch an iOS app because
that's how small the team was and the
reason they did yeah did is we were
starting to get banned in companies
because they all you know felt you know
rightfully or wrongfully that you know
the the privacy and deployment story etc
wasn't there so I was just like man we
have to do something we're going to miss
out on a generational opportunity to
build a a a a work product and you know
we've literally really define AGI as,
you know, outperforming most humans at
economically valuable work or I probably
butchered that, but you know, I think um
I think that's the way we put it. And um
um so it I feel like we had to be
present there. And it was a fairly, you
know, quick decision at the time, but
it's grown into an immense uh business.
We just hit 5 million um business
subscribers, up from three, I think, u a
month or two ago. So it is kind of this
spin-off that's taking a life of its own
that I'm really really excited about. um
um for for obvious reason
>> that is a lot to be handling uh the
platform essentially the API the
consumer product the fastest growing
most successful product in history and
also the B2B side which is uh clearly a
massive business uh do you have any kind
of heristics for how to make these
trade-offs do all this at once and stay
sane and be successful
>> uh it's a good question and you first
off I don't run the developer stuff
anymore we found someone way more
competent uh to do that um and he's
amazing So I still look after the, you
know, various forms of of of chat, but
you know, I luckily don't have to make
make that trade-off. Open eye does, and
I can get into that, too. But, um, it
keeps me a little bit more sane. I will
say that
there you kind of have to prioritize in
two different ways when you're when
you're building on this AI stuff. One is
sort of working backwards from the model
capabilities and that is much more art
than science where I think you really
need to look at what tech do we have
available and what is like the most
awesome way to product productize it and
if you applied to some sort of PM
framework to that I think you would do
something horribly wrong because if you
have tech that's you know um for example
GPD5 is is really really good at
front-end coding now like I think we
that means you got to rep prioritize it
you how to like actually bring that
capability to life. Maybe that's you
know uh making making chatb better at at
vibe coding and rendering you know
applications. Maybe that's more like you
know leveraging the taste of the model
to make the the UI more expressive.
There's like a number of things we could
do right but you kind of have to replan
and rep prioritize and that you know is
more important than any particular
audience segmentation. It's really just
looking at you know what is the magic
thing we have and how do you make it
shine. Voice is a similar thing. It
wasn't like our customers need voice.
They're begging for it or something like
that. It's like, wow, we figured out a
way how, you know, to make these things,
anything in, anything out. What is like
a creative awesome way to productize
that? And then we can see what people
do. So, I think that's one chunk of it.
But then the other chunk of it really is
more like classic product management
where you need to listen to customers
and then when your customers are really
different, that can be confusing because
uh you know, chatbt is a very general
purpose product. We see when you look at
end users there's actually an immense
amount of overlap in terms of what they
want like primitives like projects or um
you know history um search or um sharing
um collaboration like all all those kind
of things they are actually very very
present whether or not you're talking to
people at work or you're talking to
people at home and school they're
slightly different mechanics sometimes
um but they're they're largely similar
investments that I think we can get a
lot of mileage out of and then there's
enterprise specific work that we just
have to do like you got to do hippa, you
got to do soak two, you got to do all
those things if you want to be a serious
player and those are just
non-negotiable. So, it's complex as you
correctly identified. Um, but it's kind
of the the curse of working on a very
open-ended and powerful um technology.
Uh, one analogy that that um, someone at
Open who I really respect sometimes uses
is like we're kind of like Disney where
Disney has this like one kind of
creative IP um, which is like their
their content and they have cruises and
they have um, uh, you know, uh, theme
parks and they have comics and they have
all these different things and I think
we have amazing models but there's all
these different ways that you could
productize them and we kind of just have
to maximize the impact in um, in all
these different ways. As we were
talking, I was thinking about how
usually uh horizontal platforms that are
just so general and can do so much take
a long time to take off because people
don't know what to do with them. They're
not amazing at anything. And this is an
amazing counter example where it took
off immediately and everyone figured it
out and then over time they figured it
out more and more.
>> But I I think the reason why is because
it just went live. Talk about another
consequential decision actually. You
know, we were debating weight list, no
weight list because we just really knew
we couldn't scale the engineering
systems and you know, the fact that
there was no weight list, which no open
AAI release had worked like that before,
you know, ended up being consequential
because like you were able to watch what
everyone else was doing live. So, I
think when you launch these things all
at once for everyone, there really is a
special moment where you can see what
other people are doing and learn from
that. And a lot of that is actually out
of product. there's these crazy Tik Tok
posts that go viral and they have like
2,000 use cases in the comments and I go
through those in detail because it's
it's not like I knew about those use
cases either like they're they're very
very emergent and I just go through the
comments and you know process because
there's so much to learn and for that
reason I think we get to escape the
empty box problem a little bit because
you know so much learning is happening
out of product um as people are watching
each other either IRL or uh or online.
That is so interesting because you you
think about air tableable you think
about notion all these companies they
took like years to just build and craft
and think and go deep on what it could
be. It's like compare air table which
like you know they they had to do
templates they had to do um like all
these kind of things of taking the
horizontal product and making it like
use case driven compared to the like the
Instapot
um which you know there's recipes being
shared everywhere online like there's a
kind of this whole ecosystem around it.
I think we were really lucky with chat
GPT that that happened where there's
just users sharing use cases with other
users everywhere. Um and and therefore I
I think you know we we we we kind of got
very lucky by by by you know jumping
jumping ahead um on on that journey
right
>> and it feels like a core there is Sam
had a big following and everyone would
pay attention to something you launched.
So that's a really interesting new
strategy for launching horizontal
product with a huge distribution
channel. Just launch it and see what see
what comes up.
>> Yeah. Yeah, and of course I'm actually
really excited to take some of that into
the product. Like I think there's
there's we shouldn't, you know, rest on
the fact that there's so much out of
product discovery happening. Like I
actually think for the average consumer,
it would be amazing if the product did a
little bit more work on really exposing
to you what is possible. I I still feel
like chat feels a little bit like MS
DOS. uh we haven't built Windows yet and
it will be obvious once we do but you
know there there there's something that
feels a little bit like like imagine MS
DOS had gone viral and you were just
trying to like hack like little
conversation starters onto it that might
have missed sort of the big picture in
terms of how to really communicate
affordances and value to people and so I
I think there's actually a ton more
product work to do in addition to you
know just seeing use cases spread.
>> Are you able to share just what you
think that might look like this Windows
version of chat GBT versus
>> I'll let you know when we figure it out.
Um, we're hiring. Um, I think there's so
many interesting product problems here.
>> Okay, got it. Uh, by the way, I also
love that Tik Tok was like your feedback
uh channel.
>> Those comment threads are they're
they're just so wild and and also the
love that people have for it. Like the
excitement with what you're sharing
their product. I I I I kind of feel like
it's it's it's special that people are
so excited about to share what they're
doing with your product. And um I don't
take that for granted either. This
episode is brought to you by Postthog,
the product platform your engineers
actually want to use. Post Hog has all
the tools that founders, developers, and
product teams need like product
analytics, web analytics, session
replays, heat maps, experimentation,
surveys, LLM observability, air
tracking, and more. Everything Post Hawk
offers comes with a generous free tier
that resets every month. More than 90%
of customers use Post Hawk for free. You
are going to love working with a team
this transparent and technical. You'll
see engineers landing pull requests for
your issues and their support team
provides code level assistance when
things get tricky. Post hog lets you
have all your data in one place. Beyond
analytics events, their data warehouse
enables you to sync data from your
Postgress database, Stripe, HubSpot, S3,
and many more sources. Finally, their
new AI product analyst, Max AI, helps
you get further faster. Get help
building complex queries and setting up
your account with an expert who's always
standing by. Sign up today for free at
postthhog.com/lenny
and make sure to tell them Lenny sent
you. That's postthogg.com/lenny.
How do you find emergent use cases these
days? I imagine the volume is very high.
Do you have kind of a trick for figuring
out, oh, here's a new thing we should
really think about? Before I built the
product team, I actually built the data
science team. Um because I I was getting
frustrated. I was talking to as many
users as I could and my calendar you the
weeks after chat was just 15-minute user
interview the whole week through and it
was usually I stopped doing interviews
when I like can predict what the next
person's going to say. That's how I know
I've talked to enough users. But it just
wasn't happening. Like I just kept
getting new stuff. So data is one way
out where I think you you know we we
have conversation classifiers that
without you know us having to look at
the conversations allow us to kind of
figure out what are people talking about
what use cases are taking off etc. And I
think that's very very helpful. The
qualitative stuff is important for
empathy even though you're never going
to get a rep on like all the use cases
people have. Um I still spend a huge
amount of my time doing that. And then
yeah, things like those Tik Toks, um,
collections of threads, I think they're
really, really useful and, um, um, it's
just fun to watch people talk to each
other about the various use cases that
they have.
>> Is there kind of a new emergent use case
that you're excited about or is there
like a really unusual use of chat GBT
that you think about that would be fun
to share? I mentioned this earlier, but
I had always conceptualized Chat GBT as
a a workie product. Whether or not
you're at home or you at work like you I
feel like you know helping getting help
with your tax is very similar to you
know um the types of things you do at
work or you know planning a trip is
actually very similar to you know
planning an event for work. So I've
always felt like okay this thing is
going to kind of be a productivity tool
and I think something has happened. I
realized you know a few months where
that has begun to change and I really do
think the fact that you have consumers
turning to this thing for day-to-day
advice helping them like have better
relationships like that seeing like you
know people talk about how this thing
like you know saved their marriage is
like really exciting to me because like
they you know proc use it to process
their own emotions, get feedback on
their communication style. is have a
buddy to talk to about like really
difficult things. And that comes with a
ton of responsibility and work that we
have to do to make those things like
life advice great. But it also is really
really important to me because you can't
run away from those use cases. You have
to run towards them and make them
awesome. And um that's part of what
we're trying to do. So that emerging
behavior is really really cool. And more
broadly I am so excited about education.
And I'm so excited about um health. Like
I I think it would really be a waste if
we didn't take the opportunity of using
chatbt to really really help people. And
I think we've just begun to scratch the
surface um on on that. So um there's
many aspirational use cases that I want
to make happen.
>> Along those lines, an interesting use
case I've recently had, I feel like it's
going to be really helpful for uh
couples that are disagreeing about
something when they need like a third
opinion. I just had this recently where
my wife's like, "You can't heat a whole
thing that you're gonna only eat part of
in the microwave and then put it back in
the fridge." It's like, "What's the
problem? I'll heat it up. I'll put it
back in the fridge." And she's like,
"No, that's really dangerous." I'm like,
"Let's ask JPT." And the fact that she
so trusts Chiao GPT now and relies on it
throughout the day. It's such a valuable
third independent party that we can go
to.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Totally. And and you know
the a lot of those micro interactions,
talk about like interesting product
work, right? Those are micro
interactions are important, right? Did
it like definitively weigh in or did it
help you guys think through, you know,
that that that disagreement and, you
know, um, solve it on your own? I think
those details actually matter a lot and
it's where we're spending a bunch of
time.
>> Along those lines, there was this whole
launch of the very sickopantic version
of Chad GBT where it was just you are
the best person in the world. Everything
you tell me is amazingly correct. Uh,
are you able to tell us just what
happened there? Yeah, we have, you know,
we have all kinds of collateral um
online because we really felt like we
should overcommunicate on how we
discovered it, what we did about it,
etc. So, I encourage people to check
that out. Um we have a whole retro um on
on on that model release, but basically
what happened is that we pushed out an
update that, you know, made the model
more likely to, you know, tell you
things that sound good in the moment.
And um like you're you're totally right.
you know, you you you should break up
with your boyfriend or something like
that. And you know, that's just really
dangerous. And it's and and we we took
it more seriously than you even might
expect because again, at current
technology levels, you can kind of laugh
about it. Maybe it's like, ah, this
thing's always complimenting me. I
thought it was just me. I saw all those
comments online. But, you know, it
actually is is really important to make
sure that um these models are optimized
for the right things. And we have an
immense I think luxury to have a mission
that affords us to really help people a
business model that does not incentivize
you know maximizing engagement um um you
know um or time spent in the product
right so it's really important to us
that you feel like this product is
helping you with your goals whether or
not that's your current goals or even
your long-term goals and often times you
know uh being extremely complimentary
with the user isn't actually in in
service of that. So we instilled new
measurement techniques like you know
whenever we put these models in contact
with reality and we you know learn about
a problem we actually go back and make
sure we have good metrics for this
stuff. So you know we measure safety now
with every release to make sure we don't
regress and can actually improve on that
metric. Um GPD5 is an improvement which
is really exciting for me but we have
more work from there. Um and more
broadly it caused us to articulate our
point of view. who actually spent a
bunch of time on a blog post that we
just published on Monday on what we're
optimizing chatbt for. And it really is
for your you know to to to help you
thrive um um and achieve your goals, not
to you keep you in the product and um um
so there was a bunch of good outcomes
from from that incident. It's a good
example of how contact familiality is
not just important for the use cases but
also for learning what to avoid because
you would have never discovered this
issue purely in a lab unless you
actually heard it.
>> I am excited to read that blog post then
I was going to ask you this just like
>> yeah have your feedback on it. Yeah
>> and yeah I guess is there anything more
there just like how you because this
tension is so difficult like you know
helping people feel supported but not
just letting them believe everything
they want to believe. Is there anything
more you can share there just trying to
find that middle ground?
>> Incentives are important.
There's a famous saying, you know, show
me the incentive and I'll show you the
outcome.
>> Charlie Munger, maybe.
>> Um, yeah, I think that's where it came
from, right? And I think that's very,
very important. So, I would take a good
look at, you know, our mission, our
business model, the type of product
we're trying to build. And, you know, I
I I really think that, you know, chat is
a very special product because it I
think in vast majority of cases, it
makes you you leave it feeling better,
not worse. and you like you know feeling
like you're achieving something you're
trying to trying to do and so I think
that those incentives really matter
because it helps you reason about okay
when there isn't behavior in the wild
that's not good was that a bug or was
that by design you know and with sopy I
can very much say that to us that's a
bug and then on you know the the
forward-looking work there's so many you
know kind of challenging
scenar to get right. And you could
easily run away from from from these use
cases like you know the like you know
you and your wife going to this thing um
for you know input on a relationship um
um uh question or like a dispute. You
could very easily run away if you were
totally risk avoidant and say sorry I
can't help you with that. I think that's
what most tech companies do when they
hit a certain scale. They run away from
these use cases and I think it's a loss
opportunity to help people. So we want
to run towards these use cases by making
the model behavior really really great.
Um that can mean connecting you with
external resources when you're
struggling. That can mean not directly
answering your question but instead of
giving you a helpful framework you know
in the case of like should I break up
with my boyfriend should probably not
answer that question for you but it
should help you think through that
question in the way that a thoughtful
companion would. So I think it's really
important to do the work because because
I think the upside is immense. That is a
really profound point you're making
there that if most companies if they're
if their users want to ask them
something risky like get medical advice
or should I break up with my partner or
what should I do with this big problem I
have. I feel like we would have immense
regret if you had a model that was
state-of-the-art on Healthbench, which
is, you know, a um GP5 is
state-of-the-art on, you know, a bunch
of these medical benchmarks, right? And
you didn't use that to help people, like
if you just disable that use case
because you wanted to like avoid all
possible downside. I I think the duty is
to make it awesome um and to do the
work, talk to experts, figure out how
good it really is, where it breaks down,
communicate that. And um you know I
think this this technology is too
important and has too much potential
positive impact on people to to run away
from from um these high stakes use
cases.
>> And fast forward to today, it's saving
lives regularly. It's probably saving
relationships regularly. Such a
consequential decision which I imagine
was made early on.
>> You know, we're just at the beginning of
of watching how this people this this
this stuff can transform people. Um,
it's incredibly democratizing if you
compare, you know, the roll out of this
with the roll out of the personal
computer, right? You know, computers
were like so scarce when they first came
out. And this stuff is ubiquitous in a
way where you you have access to a
second opinion on on medical stuff. You
have access to, you know, um um a a
relationship buddy. You have access to a
personal tutor on literally any topic
that uh makes you curious. Uh it's
really really special that that that we
get to do that. So um um unique point in
in history.
>> Let me zoom out a bit and talk about
OpenAI and just product in general. So
you've worked at traditional let's say
traditional product companies, Dropbox,
Instacart. Now you're at OpenAI. What's
what's maybe the most counterintuitive
lesson you've learned about building
products from your time at OpenAI? each
time like I always tried to pick the
most different maximally different job
whenever I made a job change you know so
you know after Dropbox I was like
craving a real world product because it
was just so different than working on
SAS etc uh and after Instakart I was
craving on working on something that
intellectually was interesting um and
had you know this kind of like sort of
invoked the nerd in me and you know so
I've always looked for things that are
really different and then once I showed
up at these places I tried to understand
what makes that place successful like
what is truly the thing that they
cracked and how we can lean in that into
that even more and I think I spent a lot
of time thinking about this with open AI
um especially after chat before that you
know it was kind of a moot point because
we didn't really have much revenue or
products or anything that you know like
that
and there's a you know a few things um
that that that that come to mind that
have driven many decisions Um, one is
the empiricism. We talked about that a
bit. The fact that you can only find out
by shipping. Um, which is why Max and I
lean into that and that's, you know,
huge part of why, uh, we ship so much.
Um, one of them is that, you know,
amazing ideas come from anywhere. Um,
the thing about running a research lab
is you really don't tell people what to
research. Um, that's not what you do.
And we inherited that culture even as we
become a research and product company.
So just letting people do things who
have amazing ideas rather than sort of
being the gatekeeper or prioritizer of
everything or something like that um has
been proven you know immensely valuable
to us and that's where much of the
innovation comes from is empowered smart
people on any function really um so that
was a good inheritance from what I think
made openi successful and makes us
successful the interdisiplinariness
of really making sure that you put
research and engineering and design and
product together rather than treating
them as silos. I think that's the thing
that has made us successful and that you
see come through in every product we
ship. Like if you know we're shipping a
feature and it doesn't get 2x better as
the model gets 2x smarter, it's probably
not a feature we should be shipping. Um
you know not always true. You know sock
2 doesn't get better with uh you know
threader models but you know I think for
many of the core capabilities that's a
good litmus test. So, I've always found
you really have to lean into why is this
place successful and then maximally
accelerate that so to speak because um
it's it's what allows you to turn
something that feels like an accident
into something that is a repeatable uh
playbook.
>> So, you talked about this kind of
collaboration between researchers and
product people and you've been at the
beginning of chat GPT from day one to
today from zero to 700 million weekly
active users not just registered users
weekly active users. How have you
approached building out that team over
time?
>> One of the other inheritances of um
being in a research lab is that you take
recruiting really seriously. That's
something that you know AI labs know.
Every person matters. But many tech
companies they go through hyperrowth and
they kind of lose
their identity. They lose, you know,
their talent bars. They they they just
kind of have chaos. Um so we've always
had this tendency to run relatively
lean. So it is a small team that is
running chat GPT. Um I I take
inspiration from WhatsApp where like you
know it was a very small team running a
very global scale product. Um and then
more importantly I yeah I you know you
have to treat hiring a little bit more
like executive recruiting and less like
just pure pipelineed recruiting where
you really need to understand what is
the gap you're trying to fill on each
team. what is the specific skill set and
how do you fill it? Um to give you an
example, you know,
I'm a product person at heart, but
sometimes a team doesn't need a product
person because there's already someone
doing that role like like you know, in
many cases we have a really talented
engineering leader who has amazing
product sense or we have a researcher
who has product ideas and then and my
mind they can play that role and maybe
we have something else missing um
instead like maybe we need like a little
bit more front end um or something like
that. In other cases, uh maybe what
you're missing is an incredible data
scientist. So, I really like to go
through every single team and figure out
what is the skill sets that that team
needs and how do you put it together
from principles rather than just
assuming, hey, we're going to do like,
you know, a bunch of pipeline recruiting
for all these different roles and then,
you know, people will find a team later.
So, so I think that's always felt really
important to me. Um, and it's the way
that you keep your team really small yet
super high throughput. also allows you
to hire people who I think Keith Ke
Keith Ro calls this like like barrels I
think um barrels of ammunition where he
thinks I think I think this comes from
him but um the idea being that sort of
the throughput of your or depends on how
many barrels you have um which is like
people who can make stuff happen and I
think you can hire um and then you can
add ammunition around them um which is
people helping those people and you know
I I think that's been really true for
our recruiting too where we try to
maximize sort of the number of empowered
people who can ship
because that's how you have a small team
and still get a ton done. So, those are
a couple things. Um, and uh I spent a
lot of time on like vibes too with like
each team because I think one of the
things that is challenging when you try
to do research and product together is
that the cultures are different. People
have different backgrounds
and um I think to make that go super
well, you need to spend time team
building and making sure that people
have a huge amount of trust for each
other's skill sets.
um feel like they can think across their
boundaries. Um like you know um I really
believe that product is everyone's job
for example and and and for that reason
the recruiting sort of doesn't stop when
the people are in the door it actually
starts because you have to you know
start making the teams awesome.
>> Is there something you do with team
building that would be fun to share just
like something you do to create a
>> I just love whiteboarding with teams
like I just like like love getting into
a generative mindset. It breaks down
everything. So that's that's the thing
that I I I try. not particularly
creative, but I found it to be um a
universal tool where the minute you can
get people to stop thinking about, you
know, what's my job versus the other
person's job and more like, you know,
we're all in a room like trying to crack
something together. That is incredible.
>> You mentioned this idea of first
principles. This came up actually when I
talk with a lot of people about you. Is
this something you're really big on? A
lot of people talk about first
principles. Most people are like, I
don't really understand like or they
think they're amazing at thinking from
first principles. Is there something you
can share of just what it actually looks
like to think from first principles?
Maybe an example that comes to mind
where you really went to first
principles and came up with something
unexpected.
>> Yeah, this is not something I'd ever say
about myself. I said someone else would
say it, but um you know, it's a
mysterious thing. Yeah, I think you just
really got to
get to ground truth on
what you're really trying to solve. Like
for example, as I mentioned with the
recruiting thing, like I'm not dogmatic
that you have to have a product manager
and an engineering manager and a
designer or whatever. We're just trying
to make an awesome team that can ship.
So in that case, first principles means
just really understanding what we
actually need and what we're missing
rather than applying a previously um
learned process or behavior. So you
know, I think that's a good example.
Another good example of of I think being
first principles in this environment is
is is you know does this feature need to
be polished? You know we get a lot of
crap for the for for the model chooser
and I own it. Um I've tried to say that
every to everyone who will listen. Um
you know for those who don't know model
chooser is this like giant drop down in
the product that is like literally the
anti-attern of any good product
traditionally. But you know if you are
actually reason from scratch of like is
it better to wait until you've got a
polished product or to ship out
something raw even if it makes less
sense and start learning and getting it
into people's hands. Um I think a
company with a lot of process or a lot
of just you know learned behaviors will
make one call which is know we have like
a quality bar when we ship and that's
what we do. if your first principles
about it, I think you're like, you know
what, we should chip. It's embarrassing,
but that's strictly less bad than, you
know, um, not getting the feedback you
wanted. So, I think just approaching
each scenario from, you know, from
scratch
is so important in this space because
there is no analogy for what we're
building. Like there's just you can't
copy an existing thing. There's no, you
know, are we like an Instagram or are we
like, you know, a Google or like a like
a, you know, productivity to tool or
something like that. I don't know. But
you can learn from everywhere, but you
have to do it from from from scratch.
And I think that's why that trait um
tends to make someone effective at
OpenAI and it's something we test for in
our interviews, too. So this theme keeps
coming up and I think it's just
important to highlight something that
you keep coming back to which is this
trade-off of speed and polish and how in
this space speed is more important not
just to stay ahead but to learn what the
hell people actually want to do with
this thing. Is there anything more that
you think people just may be missing
about why they need to move so fast in
the space of AI?
>> Yeah, I mean the boring answer would be
oh it's competitive and everyone's an AI
and they're trying to you out compete
each other. Yeah, I think that's that
may be true, but that's not the reason
that I believe this. I the the reason
really is that you're gonna be polishing
the wrong things in the space. You
absolutely should polish, you know, um
things like the model output, etc., but
you won't know what to polish until
after you ship. And I think that is
uniquely true in an environment where
the properties of your product are
emergent and not knowable um in advance.
Uh, and I think many people get that
wrong because like the best product
people tend to be crafts people. Um, and
they have a traditional definition of
craft. I also think it would be easy to,
you know,
use all what I just said as an excuse
not to eventually build a great product.
So, I often tell my teams that shipping
is just kind of one point on the journey
towards awesomeness and you should put
pick that point uh intentionally where
it doesn't have to be the end um of of
your iteration at all. It can be the
beginning, but you better follow
through. So, we've been doing a bunch of
work, especially over the last quarter,
of like really cleaning up the UI of
ChatVt. I'm really excited to do the
same for the sort of the response
layouts and formats next simply because
once you know what people are doing,
there's no excuse to not polish your
product. Um, um, it's just really in a
world where you don't know yet, you
might get very distracted. So, it's
situational. Again, you kind of have to
be first principles about it. But I do
think using velocity especially early on
as a tool you actually this has been
said about consumer social for example.
This is it's not the first space where
people have said hey you just got to try
10 things because you're probably going
to be wrong. So I I don't think this is
you know never existed before as a
dynamic either. But I do think with AI
um it's it's it's important to
internalize
>> and there's also an element of the
models are getting are changing
constantly and so you may not even
realize what they're capable of. I
imagine
>> totally the models are changing and um
you the best way to improve them whether
or not you're a lab or actually just
someone who's doing context engineering
or or uh you know um fine-tuning a model
maybe you need failure cases real
failure cases to make these things
better. The benchmarks are increasingly
saturated. So really you need real world
scenarios where your product or model is
not actually doing the thing it was
supposed to do. And the only way you get
that is by shipping because you get back
to sort of use case distribution and you
can make those things good. Um, and
therefore, you know, it it's actually
the best way to then go articulate to
your team, especially your MEL teams,
what to climb on. It's like, oh, you
know, people are trying to do X and the
model's failing in ways why. Now, let's
make those things really good. This
point about failure cases makes me think
about something that both Kevin Wheel
and Mike Kger shared which is that eval
are becoming a huge new skill that
product people need to get good at
because so much of product building is
now eval.
Is there something there you want to
share?
>> My entire open ed journey has been this
journey of rediscovering
eternal product wisdom and principles in
like slightly new contexts.
So I remember I I started writing evals
before I knew what an eval was because
like I was just outlining sort of very
clearly specified ideal behavior for
various use cases until someone told me,
"Hey, you should make an eval." And I
realized there was this entire world of
research evaluation benchmarks that had
nothing to do with the product that I
was trying to make. And I was like,
"Wow, this might be the lingua frana of
how to communicate what um the product
should be doing to people who do AI
research." And that really clicked for
me. And at the end of the day, it's not
that different from the wisdom of you
ought to articulate success before you
do anything else. It's just a new
mechanism for doing that. But you can do
it in a spreadsheet. You can you do it
anywhere. And I really want to demystify
it for people who hear that term like
it's not some technical magic that you
have to understand. It's really just
about articulating success in a way that
is maximally useful for for training
bots.
>> Awesome. There's a I have a post coming
out uh soon that gives you a very good
uh how-to for PMs of how to write eval.
>> I would love to read it. Um and I hope
you dis I hope you agree what I with
what I just said because maybe there's
something deep to it. Yeah.
>> Yeah. And now there's all these tools
that make this easier for you.
>> Totally.
>> Okay. So this this basically backs up
this point that this is just a very
important skill that product teams and
builders need to get good at.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Okay. Just a few more questions. I know
you have a lot going on today. Um one is
that this trend of chat GPT being a big
driver of growth for traffic to sites uh
for products. For example, Chat GPT is
now uh driving more traffic to my
newsletter than Twitter, which
completely shocked me. I just was
looking at my stats. I'm like, "What the
hell? This is not something I knew was
coming." So, just I guess thoughts on
the future of this, how much how you
think about just ChatBT driving growth
and traffic to products and sites.
>> I'm really excited about it. Um because
you know in the same way that I I find
it dystopian to talk to everything
through a chatbot, I also find it
dystopian to uh you know not have
amazing new highquality content out
there. And u for that reason, you know,
I talked a little bit earlier about uh
search and how that solved like a really
important user problem early on because
you had this like knowledge cut off
thing and you suddenly you could talk
about anything. uh very obvious in
retrospect a it wasn't just a user
problem right it was an ecosystem
problem where like the original chat GBT
it didn't have outlinks it would just
you know um answer your question it keep
you in the product and you know even if
you wanted to keep reading or or go
deeper there was no way for us to drive
traffic back to uh the content ecosystem
and I've been really excited about what
we've been doing in search not just
because it gives people more accurate
answers because it allows us to surface
really high quality content like this
podcast to people um who want to see it.
And of course there's so many
interesting questions about well in the
sort of Google era you know there was
the search engine optimization and there
was like clearly understood mechanisms
of how to show up and get more traffic.
So, I get a lot of questions from people
like what is the equivalent of that the
IRA, you know, if I'm Lenny and I, I
want to like 10x the traffic to my
podcast. You know, what do I actually
need to do? And the truth is we don't
have amazing answers there. Um, simply
because the way to appeal to an AI model
ideally is the same way that you would
appeal to a u real user because the
model's supposed to proxy the interest
of the user and nothing else. At least,
you know, that's how I want our product
to work. And for that reason, you know,
my advice is super lay, which is like
make really high quality content. Um,
which, you know, is is is not as
actionable as I think people making
content would ideally like. And I think
this is why we have more work to do
because maybe there's a better mechanism
or protocol um that we could come up
with. But uh I'm excited this is driving
beautiful uh traffic for you. And I hope
that you know other other um people
making great content start to feel this
way because again it's a very neat
scenario. There's two uh acronyms people
have been using for this specific skill
of AIdriven SEO. I think one is AEO
which is answer engine optimization. The
other is GEO. Is that I don't I forget
the G one.
>> Generative. Yeah, I don't know.
>> Generative. Yeah, AI optimization. Do
you have a favorite of those too? Are
you
>> No, no, I I I tried to shy away from
these terms unless they become
inevitable just because I I'm not
entirely sure if if yet if that should
be a concept or not. Um again I think
ideally
chatbt understands your goals and
therefore understands what content would
be um interesting to you and the content
creator's job is to to you know um share
enough information and metadata about
that content such that the model can
make a user aligned decision and
therefore I'm I'm not sure if giving
this thing a name and you know making a
thing is is is is what we should be
doing or not. I'm very eager to learn um
from folks making content about what
this could look like because um again um
we're we're we're still working through
>> along these lines. Another question
people think about is you have GPTs
which are kind of these like uh GP
custom GPT apps that you can build to
answer very specific use cases. There's
always this question of you're going to
build kind of like an app store where I
can plug in my news my product into chat
GPT monetize that. Is there stuff there
that you could talk about that might be
coming someday?
>> GBTs are cool. They're they're kind of
ahead of their time in the sense that we
built that kind of concept before you
could really build very differentiated
things. Uh at least in the consumer
space, you know, um you're like learning
GPT is going to be pretty similar to
what the model could already do out of
the box. So it's mainly like a way of
articulating a use case to people. U but
it doesn't have enough tools yet to make
something that feels like an app. um so
to speak different in the enterprise by
the way we're seeing a ton of adoption
of GPTs there because just every single
company has very bespoke business
processes and and problems etc and it's
a really really useful tool there they
also have unique data that they can hook
up to these things that it can retrieve
over so we've seen a lot of success
there I think the idea is the right one
um and I and I think we're going to
figure out a good mechanism for it
because when you have so much capability
packed into AI.
It feels really powerful to allow people
to package that up in ways that have a
clear affordance, a clear use case and
are differentiated from each other. I
also would love it if you could start a
business on chatbt. Like I think there
really is a world where you know as this
thing hits building user scale, it can
get you distribution. It can get you
know started on making something in the
same way that people built on the
internet and you know there was entirely
new businesses to be built. So I think
we'll have more to share there in the
future. GBTS was an early stab and I'm
just excited to evolve the thinking
there um as the models get good and our
reach uh increases as well.
>> Amazing. That is really cool. I'm really
excited to see what you guys do there.
Okay. Uh completely different direction.
Something that I know about you is you
studied philosophy in college.
>> I did
>> computer science and philosophy, right?
A combo.
>> Yeah. I started as a philosophy major um
um and uh uh took one coding class
because I really liked logic and
programming most similar was most
similar to that and then I fell in love
with coding and then eventually computer
science and I just kept doing more and
more of it but until then I never really
thought of myself as a technical person
so it was kind of a late discovery in my
life um that I'm very grateful for. What
an incredible combination for someone
leading this product. Just
>> it's true. It is really coming in full
circle in a way that I couldn't have
predicted. Like the amount of questions
you have to grapple with are truly super
interesting and philosophy is it's not a
traditionally practical skill, but it
does really teach you to think things
through from scratch and to you know
articulate a point of view and I think
that has come in handy numerous times.
Is there a specific philosopher or
school that has been most handy to you
or is there more just a
>> general there's so many I I I wrote my
like senior thesis on whether and why
rational people can disagree um which um
you know also comes in handy when a lot
of people with very different values
have opinions on your model behavior or
on you know how things should work um so
um I really like you know 20th century
analytical philosophers um it's it's
kind of nerdy stuff uh but uh Um um I
don't know if I have a favorite. Um it's
too many to count. Um but um that's the
kind of stuff I like. Um and some of it
ends up being quite analytical like you
have like let P be this theory of love
and let Q be you know this other theory
of love and then you do some sort of
symbolic manipulation. So it is just as
much a like sort of brain thought
exercise as it is or is much more that
than than practical. But it taught me
how to think in a way that continues to
be pretty valuable.
>> Incredible. What a cool what a cool
combo of skills and in background. Uh
last question before we get to your very
exciting lightning round. So you were a
product leader at Dropbox, then
Instacart, now you're the PM of arguably
the most consequential product in
history. How did you land in this role?
What was the story of joining OpenAI and
taking on this work?
Every single career decisions I ever
made, um, including my first one out of
college was just figuring out who who
are the smartest people I know that I
want to like hang out with and learn
from and can I work with them? And I
don't know how to pick companies. I
don't know how to really logically think
through, you know, what space is going
to take off or something like that. But
I just do feel like I have a sense on
people and um you know for Dropbox I you
know followed like the head teaching
assistant for a class that I uh was
TAing and um you know for Instacart I
followed some of the smartest product
people I knew and for for OpenAI um the
person who I recruited who recruited me
uh Joanne u I had messaged her about
getting off the dolly wait list and she
said only if you interview here so she
like kind of turned it into like a
reverse recruiting
thing and you know initially honestly I
didn't know what I would do here because
it was a research lab and I was a
product person and they said you know
don't worry um we'll figure it out and
they were sort of being cy and I thought
they were being ky because it's open AI
and they can't share anything but they
were being cy because we we actually
just didn't know yet um at the time so I
showed up and I kind of did everything
under the sun and it definitely wasn't
product you know it was like you know I
think my first task was like fix the
blinds or something like that And then,
you know, I started sending out NDAs for
people because they were needed some
operational help. And then, you know, I
started asking, wait, why am I sending
out NDAs? Oh, so we could talk to users.
And I was like, talking to users? That
sounds like the thing I know how to do.
And I quickly stumbled into doing
product work. Um, and then eventually,
you know, leading a bunch of uh uh
product work, but it was organic by
just, you know, showing up and doing
what had to be done. Um, because again,
the company I joined was not a product
company by any
>> Wow. Uh this is such a good example of
uh I don't know if you think of it this
way, but when someone offers you a seat
on a rocket ship, don't ask which seat.
Uh maybe
>> I didn't know it was a rocket ship. I
just thought it was I I kind of got nerd
sniped is what I would would describe it
as or like you know as I prepared for
the conversation to get you off the
dolly weight list really. U I I just
started you know reading about the space
and that you know peaked the like
philosophy brain and then also actually
the computer science brain. I was like
wait this is cool. And then I started
reading all the academic papers of that
era and uh you know so so I just it was
intellectual itch and and the people but
then I stayed for the product
opportunity obviously I I you know post
chat GBT when that took off realized
that you know we'd built a rocket ship
um uh where we launched it while
building it uh maybe this analogy uh but
I can't say that you know it felt like a
hyped job or um um or anything like that
when I wide.
>> So, kind of a a lesson there is follow,
as you said, follow the smartest people,
you know. There's also just this thread
of uh follow things that are interesting
to you. Just you playing with Dolly led
to this opportunity.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And actually, that's
something we still test for is is
curiosity is like an attribute that we
think matters so much more than your ML
knowledge. Um, you know, I'm not making
a comment on research hiring. I think
you do need some ML knowledge, I'm
afraid. But you know on like for product
and engineering and design people and
you know those kinds of functions I
actually think that if you are just
curious about the stuff works it doesn't
matter at all if you've never done it
before. In fact if you were to filter
for people who have done it before you
would have a very narrow filter of very
lucky people rather than necessarily the
best people you can get. So um I think
we've scaled that certainly what got me
here but I think it's actually just
generically been a good predictor of
success at open. Nick, I told you I had
a billion. I said I had two billion
questions to ask you. I feel like I've
asked a lot. I feel like I still have a
billion left, but I know you told me
right after this you have a big GPT5
check-in that you got to get to. So,
>> we got a ship.
>> We got a better ship now that this is
recorded and we're putting this out.
>> This is true.
>> This is
this is the forcing function. Okay. So,
before we get to very exciting lightning
round, is there anything else that you
want to share, leave listeners with,
think is important to to share?
I try to share a little bit about how I
made decisions because I hope to
I'm not that far out of school. I like
relate a lot to people who are coming in
the job market who are trying to figure
out what to do with their life right
now. And I feel very confident that if
you surround yourself with people that
give you energy and if you follow the
things you're actually curious about
that you're going to be successful in
this era. So my, you know, parting
advice u to folks really is put yourself
around good people um and do the things
you're actually passionate about because
in a world where this thing can like you
know answer any question asking the
right question is very very important
and the only way to get you know um
learn how to do that is is to to you
know nurture your own curiosity. So, um
I uh it worked for me and um it's the
one repeatable thing that I can um
share. Everything else is luck.
>> And this is counter to what a lot of
people are doing right now, which is
follow the money. Where can I make the
most? How do I grow this thing and make
$100 million? Like all these people that
are getting these crazy offers were not
planning to make a lot of money doing
this.
>> It's quite interesting to see that stuff
play out because I think all these
people entered, you know, school for
genuine reasons. They were like excited
about the space. they were researching
it. They were pursuing knowledge and I'm
happy that that's being rewarded. Um,
and I don't know what the rewards will
look like in the future, especially in a
post AGI um world, but I I just have a
feeling that if you if you you know, if
you if you follow that advice, um,
you'll end up okay.
>> With that, Nick, we've reached our very
exciting lightning round. I've got five
questions for you. Are you ready?
>> Sure.
>> Yeah.
>> What are two or three books that you
find yourself recommending most to other
people
>> in the product space? probably things
like high output management or the
design of everyday things or you know
those kind of classic type things
because I think they're extremely
applicable in
>> we talked about philosophy I don't know
is there a philosophy book you you like
here's the one to read if you're getting
>> oh man like anything by like rolls and
nosic like I like the political stuff um
it's I think it's really fun like it's
that is the type I think I recommend I
don't think there's a practical reason
to to read that stuff but I will nerd
out about it with you so um at your own
peril
>> do you have a favorite recent movie or
TV show you've really enjoyed if you've
had time to watch anything.
>> I think you got to do a little bit of
sci-fi to be in this space. Um, you
shouldn't copy any of it, but um, I
think I think you you learn from it. So,
regularly rewatch her and Westworld.
Severance is Severs was great. Um, I
think that's the stuff that, you know,
when I have time, I'll I'll I'll meddle
with.
>> That is awesome. I love that those are
the two of all the sci-fi movies. Those
are the ones you resonate most with and
find most interesting and valuable.
>> Um, yes, but that's probably my own
limitation. Um um so I'm sure there's
more to more to discover.
>> By the way, have you read Fire Upon the
Deep, a sci-fi book?
>> Um
>> Okay. I don't know if you have time to
read this book, but it's I think you
would love it. It's such a good
>> AI oriented sci-fi space opera sort of
book.
>> Great.
>> Yeah. Okay.
Um Okay. Is there a favorite Do you have
a favorite product you recently
discovered that you really love?
>> I actually don't. I am like at extreme
capacity. It's Yeah. it. Yeah, it's it's
it's kind of interesting sometimes like
you know API developers ask me it's like
hey are you like you know cop going to
copy all of our products that is like I
actually just do not have time to to
follow up you know what's going on
outside of OpenAI because the pace here
is is so so intense so um don't have
good Rex for you I'm afraid
>> that's a really that's a comforting
answer I think to a lot of product
companies okay Nick has no time to even
look at our stuff
oh man okay do you have a favorite life
motto that you find yourself using when
things are tough, sharing with friends
or family that other few people find
useful.
>> Being the average of, you know, the the
five people you you spend the most time
with is is like a thing I really
internalize and both in my personal life
where there's like people who give me
energy and who you lift me up and make
me like a better person. Um my fiance is
one of those people, but you know
there's many people in my life. But then
there's also just like you know um at
work there's the equivalent and again
that's how I've made all the career
decisions. It's like you know who do I
want to learn from? So I apply that
principle constantly.
>> Final question. Everybody I talked to
told me that you are a very good jazz
pianist. You have won competitions. I
think you were planning to do this as
your main thing and then you somehow
took the side quest.
>> Yeah. I chickenened out of that at the
very last minute, but I was going to I
was going to go to school for for music
and um that's still my like hopefully
chapter two. Um
>> I love that. That might still happen.
>> Might still happen. Now I'm like I'm in
some some some for fun bands. Um and we
will kick from time to time. It's like
the the one thing I can do when I'm
otherwise, you know, super tired and
can't can't can't think anymore because
it it balances me out in in good ways.
But uh yeah, hopefully I'll get to do
more of it um in the future.
>> Is there any analoges between music and
your job? Anything that you you find?
Yeah, actually I feel like I feel like
you could think of software development
as like you or being a product person as
you could you could be a conductor of an
orchestra or you could be in a jazz
band. And I think of it as a jazz band
where I'm like don't believe in in the
idea of everyone having this like set
part that they have to play um and me
like kind of you know telling people
when to play. I I I love how, you know,
in in jazz or like other forms of
improvised music, you're kind of riffing
off of each other and you listen to what
one person played and then you like play
something back. And I I think that great
product development is like that in the
sense that ideas could come from
anywhere. It shouldn't be a scripted
process. You should be like trying stuff
out, having fun, having play in and in
in in what you do. So I use that analogy
a lot for those for those who like
music. It tends to resonate. Mick, I am
so thankful that you made time for this.
I know today is insane. Today, tomorrow
is going to be even more insane for the
entire world. They have no idea what's
coming. Thank you so much for doing
this. Two final questions. Where can
folks find you if you want them to find
you online? Where can folks find GPT5
potentially? And then just how can
listeners be useful to you? Just use the
product. You don't even have to pay. Um
should be your default model starting
tomorrow. Um and just use it and don't
think about models anymore. Uh unless
you want to and you're a per user, in
which case you get all little models. So
um rest assured and uh useful honestly I
I learned so so much from people at
large and chatbt users etc. So just keep
doing your thing. I'm watching and
learning and u I appreciate all the
feedback. So I'm sure after we fix the
model chooser you guys will roast me for
something else and I'll take it. So keep
it coming.
>> Amazing. Nick, thank you so much for
being here.
>> Thanks for having me Lenny
>> and good luck tomorrow.
>> Thanks. Bye everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.